AutomateIt-IOT
The application built is a multi-function calendar and is available for your Windows phone. This will be linked to devices such as fridge, alarm, printer, car’s gps and many more through the internet. We can explain this with a simple example. Say we have a meeting to attend at 9am. Our app will directly connect to the alarm clock and set it to ring around 6 or 7. It will also connect us to the car gps to guide us to the desired location and have it ready. It will connect to the coffee maker and start boiling water well about 15 minutes before hand (same goes for the geyser). It will connect the printer and print necessary documents for the meetings. Also, it could have a speech-recognition system to carry out the similar tasks above. The purpose of the project mainly includes to connect everyday devices, interfacing them to the calendar to carry out timely tasks and make them interact with one another in a way that will make our lives easier and more technology driven for a smart home and work driven environment.

This internet of things project works on the Win RT 8.x system linked to a RPI2 that interfaces the real-time operation using the Mobile Service Bus on the Microsoft Azure Cloud. The system’s scope extends to connecting real time devices in environments that require daily automation and can extend to numerous multi-functional devices with operations customized according to the customer’s needs, connected through the relay board of the RPI2. Also the system could be applied to various sections of large and small scale I.T. offices and industries, to automate the environment, save time and maintain employee schedules in an organized manner. The underlying architecture of the project could also be used in various other applications where the windows phone is interfaced with hardware like Raspberry PI and Arduino processors.
